This folder contains the deliverables (reports and presentations) of the multi-annual project USI COR SURF 
conducted by Lamice Denguir between 2013-2016 for CEA Valduc. They are classified by year:

  - Project 2013: it concerns the project "Characterising surface integrity induced by superfinishing turning of 
  OFHC copper, its impact on electrochemical reactivity, and comparison of 3D cutting to orthogonal cutting". 
  Superfinishing turning is a complex machining process with increasing importance in the industry, 
  especially when the target is the improvement of the functional performance and life on the machined components. 
  Several research studies put in evidence microstructural modifications on the machined surface and subsurface 
  layers, induced by the mechanical and thermal phenomena developed during the cutting process. 
  Those aspects have been investigated by several researchers and are the starting point of the present study. 
  In fact, this work aims to investigate the surface integrity modifications in the machined layers induced 
  by superfinishing turning of pure copper, Cu-c2, and its impact in the chemical reactivity, 
  thus in the corrosion resistance. Several experimental techniques were used in this project: for determining 
  the three orthogonal components of the resultant force acting in the cutting tool, the surface roughness, 
  the residual stresses, and the monitoring of the chemical reactivity of Cu-c2 machined samples. Each sample 
  was exposed to a solution of 1M NaClO4 and corrosion potentials were measured relatively to the saturated 
  silver chloride electrode. The research work is divided into three phases. In the first phase, superfinishing 
  turning and orthogonal cutting tests were performed. In the second phase, microstructural characterization 
  and chemical reactivity tests were performed. Finally, the third phase corresponds to the analysis of the 
  relationship between surface integrity and corrosion resistance of Cu-c2 and the comparison between 3D cutting 
  and orthogonal cutting. At the issue of this project, Lamice Denguir earned her MSc.

  - Project 2014: it encompasses the first year of the project "Characterizing and modelling the microstructure 
  and mechanical state of the sub-layers affected by superfinishing turning of OFHC copper and its impact on 
  corrosion resistance". Superfinishing machining has a particular impact on cutting mechanics, surface integrity 
  and local electrochemical behavior as well as corrosion resistance. In fact, material removal during this 
  process induces geometrical, mechanical and micro-structural modifications in the machined surface and 
  sub-surface. However, a conventional 3D cutting process is still complex to study in terms of 
  analytical/numerical modeling and experimental process monitoring. So, researchers are wondering if a less 
  intricate configuration such as orthogonal cutting would be able to provide information about surface 
  integrity as close as possible to that one generated by a 3D cutting process. For that reason, two different 
  machining configurations were compared: face turning and orthogonal cutting. The work material is oxygen free 
  high conductivity copper (OFHC) and the cutting tools are uncoated cemented carbide. The research work was 
  performed in three steps. In the first step, the process mechanics of superfinishing machining of OFHC copper 
  was performed. In the second step, the surface integrity and the chemical behavior of the machined samples were 
  analyzed. Finally, in the third step, correlations between input parameters and output measures were conducted 
  using statistical techniques.

  - Project 2015: During that year, investigations were conducted in three stages. In the first stage, 
  the mechanics of the superfinishing machining process applied to OFHC copper are investigated experimentally.
  The second stage focuses on the analysis of the surface integrity and chemical behavior of the machined 
  specimens. Statistical techniques are used to establish correlations between the process input parameters, 
  characterized by the resulting surface integrity, and the measured output parameters describing the material's 
  chemical behavior. In the final stage, the surface integrity induced by orthogonal cutting is simulated through 
  the development of a numerical model validated against experimental results while accounting 
  for machining-induced microstructural changes. The numerical predictions are then coupled with a 
  multiphysics analysis to develop a phenomenological predictive model relating surface integrity to corrosion 
  resistance. The eperimental work was performed in different labs: LaBoMaP Cluny, ICB Dijon, ENISE St Etienne.

  Project 2016: 2016 was the final year of the PhD preparation of Lamice Denguir. It was marked by the advanced
  level of data analysis, predictive modelling and simulation theat resulted in a new constitutive model for 
  OFHC copper embracing microstructural transformations and the state of stresss, a successful numerical model 
  to predict surface integrity induced by the cutting process, besides the statistical establishment of the 
  relationship between corrosion resistance, surface integrity and cutting physics with high levels of confidence.
  
  The success of the USI COR SURF project made Lamice Denguir nominated to the Bézier Prize 2017 earn the 
  scientific prize of Manuf21 2018.

  
